WELCOME EVERYONE TO THE
JULY TWENTY THIRD TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
MEETING.
I'M CANDACE CHAIRPERSON OF THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AS A
NINE PERSON VOLUNTEER BOARD
NOMINATED BY THE MAYOR AND
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL.
FIRST WE WILL HEAR FROM
PLANNING SERVICES REPRESENTED
TONIGHT BY CHARLIE COLLINS.
THEN THE APPLICANT OR THEIR
REPRESENTATIVE WILL MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION.
APPLICANTS WILL HAVE FIVE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO MAKE THEIR
PRESENTATION STAFF WILL KEEP
TIME AND WILL ANNOUNCE WHEN 30
SECONDS REMAINING PUBLIC
COMMENT
IS AVAILABLE IN PERSON
OR REMOTELY.
WE WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE BOARD, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING OR DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT REMOTELY PRESS STANI IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RAISED HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE
THREE EIGHT ONE SIX FOUR EIGHT
ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK YOU WILL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND
SOUNDS.
WE MAY ASK QUESTIONS OF EITHER
THE CITY OR THE APPLICANT.
WE WILL ACKNOWLEDGE ANY WRITTEN
COMMENTS RECEIVED BY THE BOARD.
WE WILL ALLOW AN APPEARING
PARTY TO EXPRESS THEIR SUPPORT
OR OBJECTIONS.
THE BOARD WILL THEN DISCUSS THE
APPEAL AND FORMULATE A MOTION
TO APPROVE THE APPEAL.
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES OF THE
BOARD WILL BE REQUIRED FOR AN
APPEAL TO BE GRANTED.
FINALLY, ANY QUALIFIED PARTY
WHO IS AGGRIEVED BY A DECISION
OF THE BOARD CAN APPEAL THAT
DECISION TO THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY CIRCUIT COURT ON A
TIMELY BASIS.
ROLL CALL KANDACE I AM HERE TO
GRANT I AM HERE DAVE DAVE
ALREADY HERE PETIT LASKOWSKI
JULIE WETHERBEE HERE DREW
DENSON HERE MIKE DANIEL DERMO
ECKMANN HERE CHRISTINA GUZIK
HERE WE HAVE A QUORUM MOVING ON
TO APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
I WILL NOTE BRIEFLY THAT THE
SECOND ITEM ON OUR AGENDA
TONIGHT PETITION EBAY TWENTY
FIVE DESH ZERO ZERO ONE THREE
TWENTY FIVE TWENTY I'VE NEVER
SEEN ROAD.
I WILL BE RECUSING MYSELF FROM
THAT POSITION FROM THAT
PETITION.
SO TODD WILL BE TAKING OVER AS
CHAIR FOR DISCUSSION OF THAT
ITEM.
ARE THERE ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR
QUESTIONS ON THE AGENDA IF NOT
DRIVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA MOTION FROM JULIE
SUPPORT THANK YOU DRAMA ALL IN
FAVOR SAY I OPPOSE MOVING ON TO
APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
WE HAVE MINUTES FROM THE JUNE
TWENTY FIFTH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING ANY COMMENTS QUESTIONS
,CORRECTIONS TO THOSE MINUTES?
IF NOT DO I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES MOTION FROM
DREW SUPPORT FROM JULIE ALL IN
FAVOR SAY AYE.
>> AYE I OPPOSED.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON FIRST WE HAVE OUR
FIRST PUBLIC HEARING PETITION
ZEBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
ONE NINE FIVE ZERO FOUR CONCORD
PYNES CHARLIE SO READ THE STAFF
REPORT ZERO TWO FIVE ZERO ZERO
ONE NINE FIVE ZERO FOUR CONCORD
PYM'S DRIVE PHILADELPHIA
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUESTING A
SIX FOOT VARIANCE FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT ONE SEVEN DASH ONE
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
THE OWNERS ARE PROPOSING TO
CONSTRUCT A NEW ONE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FIVE SQUARE FOOT SCREEN
PORCH IN THE REAR YARD.
THE PROPERTY IS ZONED R ONE B
AND REQUIRES A MINIMUM 40 FOOT
REAR YARD SETBACK.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS LOCATED
ON THE NORTH SIDE OF CONCORD
HYNDE'S DRIVE IN EAST OF YOUR
HEART ROAD JUST NORTH
OF CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY.
THE HOUSE WAS BUILT IN TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR AND IS THREE
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND FORTY
NINE SQUARE FEET IN SIZE.
THE HOME IS ON A CONFORMING FOR
THE R-1 B DISTRICT AND IS TEN
THOUSAND AND TEN SQUARE FEET IN
SIZE ACCORDING TO THE SURVEY
SUBMITTED BY THE APPLICANT,
SUBJECT PROPERTY IS SEEKING A
VARIANCE TO BUILD A NEW ONE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE SQUARE
FOOT SCREEN PORCH IN THE REAR
YARD.
THE PROPOSED SUNROOM WILL
INCLUDE SPACE FOR A TABLE AND
SEATING THE NEW ADDITIONS WILL
BE CONSTRUCTED IN THE REAR YARD
THIRTY FOUR FEET FROM THE FLAT
LINE.
>> THE PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION
REQUIRES A VARIANCE FROM THE
ZIBA.
NOW IF YOU DIRECT YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE SCREEN PLEASE
HERE IS A ZONING MAP.
THE SUBJECT PARCEL IS
HIGHLIGHTED IN BLUE IN THE
CENTER OF THIS MAP HERE IS AN
AERIAL PHOTO ZOOMED IN AERIAL
PHOTO OF FIVE OF FOUR CONCORD
PINES DRIVE.
>> HERE IS AN APPLICANT
SUBMITTED SURVEY WITH THE
SUBJECT PROPOSED SCREEN PORCH
HIGHLIGHTED DASHT ON THE NORTH
SIDE OF THE HOUSE HERE IS THE
SITE PLAN OF FLOOR PLAN FOR THE
PROPOSED PORCH.
IT'S TWELVE AND A HALF
APPROXIMATELY TWELVE AND A HALF
FEET BY FOURTEEN FEET AND
HERE'S AN ELEVATION
HERE ARE ON
SITE STAFF PROVIDED PHOTOS
OF THE EXISTING CONDITIONS
OF THE PROPERTY
AND THAT IS ALL
FROM STAFF.
THANK YOU CHARLIE.
ANY QUESTIONS FOR STAFF?
YES, MR. COLLINS, MY
UNDERSTANDING OF THE UNIFORM
DEVELOPMENT CODE IS IT THAT IS
THAT IF MR. MILLER WERE SIMPLY
ASKING FOR UNSCREENED PORCH OR
DECK THAT NO VARIANCE WOULD BE
NECESSARY BUT BECAUSE ITS
SCREEN IS DEEMED TO BE IN
CLOTHES SO THEREFORE ACCOUNTS
INTO THE SETBACK AND I SAY I
THINK IT'S SECTION FIVE POINT
ONE SEVEN.
IS IT TRUE IT WAS NOT SCREENED
AND HE DOES NEED A VARIANCE
BECAUSE HAS WALLS AND A ROOF
THEREFORE IT'S CONSIDERED AN
ADDITION TO IT'S PART OF THE
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE.
SO YES, YOU'RE CORRECT IF IT
WERE A DECK WITHOUT WALLS OR
ROOF THIS WOULD NOT NEED A
VARIANCE.
MY SECOND AND LAST QUESTION IS
CAN YOU VERIFY OR CONFIRM THE
STATEMENT MADE IN ONE OF THE
LETTERS THAT THERE WAS
EXTENSIVE NEGOTIATION BETWEEN
EARHART VILLAGE AND I THINK THE
TOLL BROTHERS BUILT CONCORDE
PINES ON KEEPING A VISUAL AND
DISTANCE AND AUDITORY BARRIER
BETWEEN THE TWO SUBDIVISIONS.
>> CAN YOU CONFIRM THAT?
ALTHOUGH I'M NOT PRIVY TO THE
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE
DEVELOPER AND TOWN HOMES, I AM
AWARE OF IF YOU DIRECT YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE SCREEN THERE
IS AN OPEN SPACE BEHIND US SO
THERE IS THE REAR YARD HERE.
IT'S A FORTY YARD OR 40 SET
BACK FROM THE REAR OF THE HOUSE
TO THE BACK OF THE YARD AND IN
BETWEEN THE AND OF THE REAR
YARD THERE'S AN OPEN COMMON
SPACE THAT SEPARATES THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE REAR EDGE
OF FIVE FOUR CONCORDE PINES
YARD TO THE TOWNHOMES TO THE
NORTH.
>> I CAN ELABORATE ON THIS
BECAUSE I BICYCLE BY THE
SUBDIVISION YESTERDAY BY THE
PROPERTY AND ON MY BIKE RIDE
THROUGH THE CITY I DIDN'T KNOW
WHETHER NOW IS THE TIME TO
MENTION IT OR SHOULD WE DO IT
WHEN IT'S IN DISCUSSION?
>> WHAT WOULD BE PROPER IF WE
COULD I GUESS IF YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS THAT MIGHT COME OUT
OF IT WE COULD DO IT NOW BUT
OTHERWISE WE COULD BROUGHT A
PHOTO OF MY IPAD WHICH SHOWS A
ROW OF PINE TREES NEXT DOOR
EARHART VILLAGE OF HILL AND AS
YOU GO DOWN HILL IT LOOKS LIKE
SOMEBODY BEAT ME TO CONCORD
PINES DEVELOPER PLANTED THREE
ROWS OF TREES AND THEN THERE'S
THE GENTLE SLOPING BERM AND
THEN A LARGE FLAT LINE.
SO THESE TREES ARE NOT PLANTED
BY EACH INDIVIDUAL HOMEOWNER
BECAUSE THEY GO IN A LINE.
SO TO ME THAT CONFIRM WHAT ONE
OF THE LETTERS SUGGESTED WAS
THAT THERE WAS EXTENSIVE
DISCUSSION THE GEARHEART MANNER
PEOPLE WERE UNHAPPY WHEN THEY
WANTED A BIG VISUAL SPACE
BARRIER.
THAT'S WHAT IT SUGGESTS TO ME
AND ANYBODY WANTS TO LOOK AT
THIS PHOTO, I'M HAPPY TO DO
THAT.
IT'S RIGHT HERE.
MY I ALSO HAVE A SIMILAR STAFF
PROVIDED PHOTO ON THE SCREEN
DISPLAYING WHAT TODD WAS
DESCRIBING THERE.
I WAS DOWN THE LENGTH YOURS IS.
THAT'S CORRECT.
IT'S GOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH.
TURN AND YEAH GO AHEAD.
OH YEAH.
SO I'M THE FINAL GRADE AS WELL
TO THE SURVEY IT'S HANDWRITTEN
PROPOSED DECK BUT THAT'S NOT
ACCURATE AND NO THE DECK WAS
WHAT WAS ORIGINALLY APPLIED FOR
INCORRECTLY SO NO THIS IS A
SCREEN PORCH THAT IS BEING
APPLIED FOR NOT A DECK.
THIS IS A STRUCTURE WITH WALLS
AND A ROOF AND THE DECK THOUGH
IF IT WERE TO BE IN THAT SAME
IT WOULD BE ALLOWED BY
CODE WITHOUT A VARIANCE.
THE FOOTPRINT OF A DECK WITH NO
ROOF WALLS THAT'S BECAUSE IT'D
BE CONSIDERED AN ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE AND BECAUSE THIS HAS
WALLS AND A ROOF IT'S
CONSIDERED AN ADDITION TO THE
PRINCIPLE STRUCTURE.
>> AND HOW FAR OUT COULD A DECK
GO?
UM IS IT I MEAN DECK COULD IT
COULD BE DETACHED.
IT COULD GO UP TO THREE FEET TO
THE REAR PROPERTY ON BUT STILL
BE CONNECTED TO THE PRINCIPLE
STRUCTURE.
UM YES YES YEAH OK OK THANK YOU
.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
CHARLIE.
>> ALL RIGHT IF THE PETITIONER
IS HERE PLEASE COME FORWARD
SIGN IN STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD YOU'LL HAVE FIVE MINUTES
.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
MY NAME IS PHILIP MILLER.
MY FAMILY AND I LIVE AT FEYDEAU
FOR CONCORD PINES DRIVE.
IT'S JUST OFF OF AREHART ROAD
IN THE NORTHEAST PART OF THE
CITY.
THANK YOU ALL FOR THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT A
REQUEST FOR A VARIANCE TO THE
REAR SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
.
AS YOU KNOW, WE'D LIKE TO BUILD
A SCREEN PORCH OFF OF THE BACK
OF OUR HOUSE ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF THE HOUSE.
AND AS YOU'VE HEARD, THE
PROPOSED SCREEN PORCH WOULD BE
ABOUT TWELVE AND A HALF FEET
WIDE AND 14 FEET DEEP.
SO MORE OR LESS A SQUARE THAT'S
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE
SQUARE FEET.
WE ARE REQUESTING A SIX FOOT
VARIANCE FROM THE 40 FOOT WE'RE
SET BACK REQUIREMENT SO FROM
THE BACK OF OUR HOUSE TO THE
REAR PROPERTY LINE IS FORTY
EIGHT FEET IN ADDITION THEN
COULD BE EIGHT FEET DEEP BEFORE
HITTING THAT SET BACK
REQUIREMENT.
WE LIKE OUR PORCH TO BE
FOURTEEN FEET DEEP AND THAT'S
REALLY TO BE ABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE TABLE AND SOME
CHAIRS SO THAT WE CAN SIT AND
HAVE A MEAL OUT ON THE SCREEN
PORCH, SORT OF PUT DOWN SOME
MARKERS ON THE GROUND HAD WE
ONLY GONE OUT EIGHT FEET SO IT
WAS SORT OF EIGHT BY 12 FOOT
SPACE.
IT'S JUST KIND OF NOT
FUNCTIONALLY BIG ENOUGH TO BE
ABLE TO SIT OUT AND HAVE DINNER
IN THE EVENING ON A SCREEN
PORCH AS YOU CAN SEE ON THE
AERIAL MAP THAT WAS PART OF THE
PACKET AS YOU'VE HEARD BEYOND
OUR REAR PROPERTY LINE THERE IS
A SEVENTY FIVE FOOT DEEP COMMON
AREA WHICH IS OWNED IN COMMON
BY THE HOMEOWNERS IN OUR
DEVELOPMENT.
THAT'S SORT OF A BUFFER BETWEEN
THE REAR PROPERTY LINE OF OUR
HOUSE AND THEN THE PROPERTY
OWNERS TO OUR NORTH IN YOUR
HEART VILLAGE YOU CAN'T REALLY
SEE FROM THE AERIAL MAP BUT YOU
DID SEE FROM ONE OF THE STAFF
PHOTOGRAPHS THAT SEVENTY FIVE
FOOT COMMON AREA IS REALLY A
HILL THAT GOES UP TO ABOUT
THE LOW POINT AT THE END OF OUR
PROPERTY BEHIND OUR HOUSE THERE
ARE ABOUT TWENTY TREES THAT ARE
PLANTED ON THAT HILL.
YOU CAN SEE IN THE AERIAL
PHOTOGRAPH THAT THE CONIFERS
PRETTY WELL THAT SHOW UP IT'S
DARK GREEN CIRCLES.
THEY'RE DECIDUOUS TREES AS
WELL.
WE'VE GOT SOME WHITE OAKS AND
SOME ELMS THAT ARE A LITTLE BIT
HARDER TO SEE ON THE AERIAL BUT
YOU SAW IT IN THE PHOTOGRAPH
AND IT'S THOSE CONTINUE TO GROW
AND LEAF OUT THAT SORT OF FILL
IN THAT AREA BEHIND OUR
PROPERTY BEFORE GETTING TO THE
HEART VILLAGE PROPERTY TO THE
NORTH.
I THINK THAT GRANTING THE
VARIANCE WOULD RESULT IN A
LITTLE DISRUPTION TO OUR REAR
NEIGHBOR BECAUSE OF THAT COMMON
AREA AND THE BUFFER IS PART
OF THE TERRAIN.
AND SO THAT WOULD GRANTING THE
VARIANCE WOULD ENSURE THAT OUR
NEIGHBORS CAN STILL ENJOY THEIR
PROPERTY WHICH IS THE PURPOSE
OF HAVING THE 40 FOOT SET BACK
IN IN THE FIRST INSTANCE.
I THINK THE GRANTING THIS
VARIANCE WOULD BE CONSISTENT
WITH THE PURPOSE OF THE
DEVELOPMENT CODE .
IT ALLOWS IN ENHANCED USE
OF OUR PROPERTY REALLY JUST TO
BE ABLE TO ENJOY THE OUTDOORS
WITHOUT CAUSING DISRUPTION TO
ANY OF OUR NEIGHBORS.
SO WE'RE REQUESTING EXPERIENCE
TO HAVE JUST A MODEST
ADJUSTMENT OF SIX FEET TO ALLOW
US TO ENJOY OUTDOOR SPACE.
THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH AND I'M
HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS FOR THE PETITIONER TO
PAY ALWAYS.
MR. MILLER, SEVERAL OF YOUR
NEIGHBORS HAVE CONSTRUCTED ONE
ENCLOSED DECS.
THAT'S CORRECT.
BUT FOR SOME REASON YOU
REJECTED THAT.
>> CAN YOU TELL ME WHY WE HAD
TO NOT BE BOTHERED BY
MOSQUITOES?
I THOUGHT YOU WERE GOING TO SEE
THAT MY WIFE AND I HAVE AN L.L.
BEAN GREENHOUSE AND ELBY IS A
GREAT COMPANY AND YOU CAN SET
IT UP IN THE SUMMER AND
UNFORTUNATELY MY WIFE LIKES A
BRANCH ON OUR OAK TREE THAT
BLOCKS US USING IT NOW.
SO WE HAVE TO RETREAT INTO THE
HOUSE WHEN THE BITING MIDGES
SHOW UP.
BUT IF YOU WERE TO USE THIS YOU
COULD STAY OUTSIDE, YOU
WOULDN'T NEED A VARIANCE AND
WHEN THE BITING MIDGES GOT
FROZEN TO DEATH YOU COULD THEN
TAKE THE WHOLE THING OFF AND
ENJOY A WONDERFUL VIEW WITHOUT
ANY STRUCTURE.
HAVE YOU GIVEN THOUGHT TO THAT
?
WOULD YOU REALLY FOR SOME
REASON WANT AN ENCLOSED DECK?
ABSOLUTELY APPRECIATE THAT
SUGGESTION.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT THAT WE'VE
CERTAINLY THOUGHT ABOUT.
WE'D REALLY LIKE TO HAVE AN
ENCLOSED SCREENED PORCH THE
HOME THAT WE LIVED IN BEFORE
MOVING HERE HAD A SCREENED
PORCH AND FRANKLY IT WAS ONE
OF THE BEST FEATURES OF THAT
HOUSE.
IT JUST CREATES A SPACE YOU CAN
WALK RIGHT OUT OF THE KITCHEN
INTO WITH A SNACK OR A BOOK TO
READ IN THE AFTERNOON.
SO THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE'D LIKE
TO DO.
OK, DAVE, I KNOW IT'S BEEN A
LOT OF THESE STRUCTURES LOOK
PRETTY MUCH THE SAME IN THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
IS THERE A HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION?
YES.
AND HAS NEW PLANTS LIKE THIS
HAVE TO GO BEFORE THE
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION?
YES.
THAT IS EVERYTHING FROM
BUILDING COLOR TO AND KITCHENS
AND I DON'T KNOW IF YOU EVEN
HAVE REGULATIONS ON WHAT TREE
COMPLIANT THERE IS AND I KNOW
SOME HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS
ARE PRETTY RESTRICTIVE ABOUT
THOSE SORTS OF THINGS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE'S AN ARCHITECTURE REVIEW
COMMITTEE THAT NEEDS TO APPROVE
ANY ADDITIONS TO HAS IT GONE
BEFORE THEN?
YES.
THANK YOU.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
PETITIONER?
WELL, I WAS GOING TO ASK IF
MAYBE YOU SILLY FOLLOW UP
QUESTION.
I ASSUME THE ARCHITECTURAL
COMMISSION SAID IT WAS OK.
THAT'S RIGHT.
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
AT THIS POINT WE WILL OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING IF ANYONE HERE
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION, PLEASE COME FORWARD
AND STATE YOUR NAME FOR THE
RECORD, YOU WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES
.
>> GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS RITA ROSS.
I'M THE PRESIDENT OF HER
VILLAGE HOMES ASSOCIATION AND
I'M HERE TONIGHT REPRESENTING
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FOUR
CO-OWNERS NEAR HER VILLAGE
HOMES.
YOU HAVE MY LETTER IN YOUR
PACKET BUT I JUST WANTED TO
COME TO BE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS AND JUST TO
EMPHASIZE THAT MR MILLER'S
PROPERTY IS NOT EXCEPTIONAL.
HE HAS NO DIFFICULTIES WITH HIS
PROPERTY.
HIS PROPERTY IS THE SAME AS THE
OTHER FIFTY SIX LOTS IN THIS
PARTICULAR CONCORD PINUS
SUBDIVISION AND ONE OF OUR
CONCERNS IS THAT WHEN YOU START
SETTING VARIANCES YOU CREATE
PRECEDENTS AND BASICALLY ADDING
A SCREEN PORCHES, EXTENDING THE
HOME AND SO WITH ALL OF THE
OTHER FIFTY SIX OWNERS OR THE
OWNERS THAT ORDER AREHART
VILLAGE DO THAT THEN BASICALLY
THEY'RE EXTENDING THEIR HOME
BEYOND THE ALLOWABLE SET BACK
TOLL BROTHERS IN THEIR VILLAGE
DID AGREE TO A COMMON AREA THAT
THAT COMMON AREA WOULD CREATE A
BUFFER BETWEEN THE TWO
PROPERTIES.
WE HAVE A SIMILAR AGREEMENT
WITH GLACIER HILLS THAT'S
ACTUALLY A FORMALIZED
CONSERVATION AGREEMENT BUT THE
AGREEMENT WAS THAT IT WOULD BE
IN ADDITION TO THAT IT WOULD
CREATE A BUFFER THAT IT WOULD
NOT REPLACE THE BOUNDARY AND
THAT IT WOULD NOT CHANGE ANY
OF THE REQUIRED FENCE OF THE
ZONE.
LOTS I HAVE EMPATHY WITH MR
MILLER.
I'VE ONCE LIVED IN A HOME THAT
HAS A SCREENED IN PORCH AS WELL
.
ERHART VILLAGE DOES NOT ALLOW
THAT IN OUR ARCHITECTURAL
DESIGN SO I EMPATHIZE WITH HIM
BUT I ALSO THINK THAT HE AND
THE COMMITTEE SHOULD EMPATHIZE
WITH THE AREHART VILLAGE
CO-OWNERS WHO ALSO HAVE RIGHTS
TO THEIR PROPERTY.
THEY HAVE RIGHTS TO PRIVACY.
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN RIGHTS TO
SIT OUTSIDE DYING AND ENJOY THE
NICE WEATHER BUT THEY DO IT
WITHIN THE SETBACKS THAT WERE
ESTABLISHED BY THE CITY
GRANTING THE VARIANCE WOULD
RESULT IN REAL HARDSHIP AND
SOMEWHAT OF A SUBSIDY INJUSTICE
TO HER VILLAGE CO-OWNERS.
IT COMPROMISES AS I SAID, THEIR
PRIVACY STRUCTURE IS GOING TO
BRING WITH IT ADDITIONAL
LIGHTING.
IT'S GOING TO BRING INCREASED
NOISE CLOSER TO THEIR BOUNDARY
LINES.
IT UNDERMINES THE GOALS OF THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE WHICH
ESTABLISH CLEAR GUIDELINES
WHICH ARE KNOWN WHEN THE HOME
WAS BOUGHT JUST A YEAR AGO AND
I BELIEVE IT WOULD BE
DISRUPTIVE TO OUR COMMUNITIES
PEACE AND ORDER.
I WOULD CERTAINLY PETITION YOU
AND SAY THAT IN OUR OPINION
VILLAGE IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR
THE ZONING APPEALS BOARD TO
DENY THE HOMEOWNER VARIANCE.
THE THIS DECISION TO DENY WOULD
UPHOLD THE INTEGRITY AND
INTEGRITY OF THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE AND PROTECT
THE RIGHTS AND PRIVACY OF THE
ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FOUR
CO-OWNERS OF GEARHEART VILLAGE,
ESPECIALLY THOSE WHOSE
BUILDINGS ARE RIGHT ON THE
PROPERTY LINE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE HERE
THAT WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE THAT
WISHES TO SPEAK ON THIS
PETITION?
IF SO, PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OR USE THE RAISED HAND FUNCTION
.
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY ATTENDEES.
THANK YOU MARIJANA WITH THAT
THE PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
I WILL NOTE THAT WE DID RECEIVE
SEVERAL LETTERS REGARDING THIS
PETITION SO
I WILL NOTE THOSE
QUICKLY.
FOR THE RECORD WE HAVE A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM YOU AARON AT
SIX, SEVEN, SIX GREENHILLS
DRIVE A LETTER OF OPPOSITION
FROM AND BATASUNA.
OK, I APOLOGIZE IN ADVANCE FOR
BUTCHERING ALL OF THESE NAMES
FROM THE PROPERTY OWNER AT 670
TO GREENHILLS DRIVE, A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM CHRISTOPHER
COOK AT EIGHT FIVE ONE
GREENHILLS DRIVE A LETTER FROM
ROBERT AND SHERRY HATCHER FIVE
OH FIVE CONCORD PYNES DRIVE
THAT NOTE NO OBJECTION TO THE
PROPOSED VARIANCE REQUEST.
WE HAVE A LETTER FROM LINDSAY
HIGGINS, THE OPERATION MANAGER
FOR THE EARHART VILLAGE HOMES
ASSOCIATION WHICH INCLUDES
COMMENTS IN OPPOSITION FROM THE
RESIDENTS AT 640 THROUGH SIX TO
GREENHILLS DRIVE SIX SEVENTY
THROUGH SIX SEVENTY TO
GREENHILLS DRIVE 640 THEROUX'S
OH YES ALSO 642 662.
SO YES THERE'S SEVERAL APPEARS
TO BE SEVERAL UNITS REPRESENTED
HERE ALL IN OPPOSITION.
A LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM
CATHERINE JOHNSON AT NINE
FIFTEEN GREENHILLS DRIVE A
LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM
CARSIA YEN CHECK A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM STEPHANIE
MORAN AT EIGHT SEVENTY THREE
GREENHILLS A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM SARA PRICE A
LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM LISA
REACH A LETTER OF OPPOSITION
FROM MARK REICHARD.
A LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM
JOYCE ROBERTSON 650 TO
GREENHILLS DRIVE.
A LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM
READERS AS NOTED FROM EIGHT
THIRTY FIVE GREENHILLS DRIVE A
LETTER OF OPPOSITION FROM
NAYANA SIFA AND A LETTER
OF OPPOSITION FROM AJ WILHELM
AT SEVEN TEN GREENHILLS DRIVE
AND WITH THAT WE ARE IN
DISCUSSION SO I THOUGHT ABOUT
THIS OVER LUNCH TODAY A LITTLE
BIT OVER DINNER.
I THINK THERE ARE SOME THINGS
IN FAVOR OF MR MILLER'S
PROPOSAL.
HE WAS VERY ARTICULATE WHY HE
WANTED IT RATIONAL REASONS I'M
SECOND FOR THOSE OF YOU THAT
FOLLOW THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS WE LIKE PORCHES AND
WE LIKE DECS.
WE LIKE PEOPLE USING THE FRONT
OF YOUR HOUSE OR THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE AND EXPANDING THE
USE OF THEIR PROPERTY AND SIX
FEET IS ONLY 15 PERCENT OF THE
40 FOOT SETBACK AND NORMALLY
THOSE WOULD BE REASONS ATTITUDE
IN FAVOR.
BUT BUT I'M GOING TO VOTE
AGAINST THIS FOR THE FOLLOWING
REASONS.
THIS IS A REALLY A WONDERFUL
UPPER MIDDLE CLASS SUBDIVISION.
THE HOMES ARE BEAUTIFUL.
THERE'S STUNNING BUT I HAD SORT
OF A THEME WHICH IS THAT IF
THERE'S A WAY OF GETTING WHAT
YOU WANT AND 95 PERCENT OF WHAT
YOU WANT WITHOUT NEEDING A
VARIANCE, YOU CAN DO IT.
AND IT'S CLEAR FROM THE PHOTOS
THAT I TOOK YESTERDAY AND MR
MILLER STATEMENT TODAY THAT HIS
OTHER NEIGHBORS HAD BUILT OPEN
DECKS HE CAN DO THAT AND YOU
DON'T NEED A VARIANCE FOR THAT
AND THERE'S A WAY OF HIM
ENJOYING THE OUTDOORS WITHOUT
EATING A VARIANCE AND A
VARIANCE BLUNTLY IS PERMISSION
TO DO SOMETHING THAT IS
OTHERWISE ILLEGAL.
IT VIOLATES THE CITY'S
ORDINANCE.
SO IT'S AN EXCEPTION.
NOBODY HAS A RIGHT TO A
VARIANCE.
BUT LOOKING AT THE CRITERIA THE
FIRST ONE IS THIS PROPERTY
EXCEPTIONAL.
HIS PROPERTY IS JUST LIKE ALL
THE ONES THAT ARE IN THE ROW
JUST SOUTH OF THEIR HEART
MANNER SO HIS PROPERTY IS NOT
EXCEPTIONAL AT ALL?
NO, TO THE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
THERE REALLY ISN'T REALLY THE
HOME IS WONDERFUL.
I'M SURE IT HAS ALL THE MODERN
AMENITIES AND THE ABSENCE OF A
DECK IS SIMPLY SOMETHING THAT
WOULD MAKE THIS AN CLOTHES
PORCH IS SOMETHING THAT WOULD
MAKE THE SUMMER A LITTLE NICE
BUT YOU ESSENTIALLY GET THE
SAME THING WITH THE DECK.
>> SO REGARDING PUBLIC
BENEFITS, THIS IS AN
INTERESTING ONE FOR ME AND I
DON'T KNOW IF US HERE AT THE
ZEBA OR THE RIGHT PLACE WERE
BUT I THINK THERE'S A PUBLIC
BENEFIT IN UPHOLDING A
NEGOTIATED SOLUTION BETWEEN AN
EXISTING SUBDIVISION AND A
DEVELOPER AND THAT WE SHOULD
NOT BE UNDERCUTTING THAT THAT
WE SHOULD UPHOLD THE
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN TOLL
BROTHERS AND EHRHART MANOR AND
KEEP ALBEIT A LARGE AREA WITH
TREES BUT UNDISTURBED.
THAT WAS WHAT EARHART MANOR
UNDERSTOOD THAT THEY'D BEEN
MENTIONED TO SOME OF THE PEOPLE
BUYING INTO CONQUERED PINES.
BUT THAT'S CLEARLY THE
UNDERSTANDING AND I DON'T THINK
IT'S OUR ROLE TO DISTURB THAT
AND NUMBER FOUR AND FIVE ARE
PRETTY EASY.
A NUMBER FIVE IS SORT
OF RISIBLE SOMEHOW WITHOUT
GETTING THIS VARIANCE THAT THE
PROPERTY COULDN'T BE REASONABLY
ENJOYED OR USED.
BUT OF COURSE THAT'S JUST IT'S
A IT'S AN AMAZING HOME.
IT'S BEAUTIFUL AND THE PROPERTY
CAN BE USED WITHOUT A VARIANCE.
SO NORMALLY IN A REGULAR
SITUATION I WOULD BE INCLINED
TO VOTE FOR IT.
BUT BECAUSE THESE SPECIAL
THINGS I THINK I HAVE TO VOTE
AGAINST IT EVEN THOUGH MR
MILLER PRESENTED A GREAT CASE
.
BUT I HAVE TO AGREE WITH TODD
AS I LOOK THROUGH THIS OUR
VARIOUS DETERMINATION WORKSHY I
DON'T SEE THAT THIS REQUEST
MEETS A SINGLE ONE OF OUR
CRITERIA FOR APPROVING A
VARIANCE AND I I TOO I HAVE A
PATIO IN MY REAR YARD THAT WE
USE ALL THE TIME.
I KNOW THAT OUR YARDS CAN BE
USED WITHOUT SCREENING IN AREAS
.
IT'S I AGREE WITH THE SPEAKER
OF THE HOMEOWNER ASSOCIATION TO
THE NORTH THAT SETTING A
VARIANCE HERE KIND OF SET PUTS
IN PLACE THE RATIONALE FOR
GIVING VARIANCES TO ALL THE
HOMES IN THIS SUBDIVISION.
AND I, I, I CAN'T I CAN'T DO
THAT ESPECIALLY SINCE THEY CAN
THE HOUSES I MEAN THE YARD IS
USABLE EITHER WITH A PAD YOUR
DECK TO HAVE OUTDOOR SPACE.
SO I TOO WILL BE VOTING AGAINST
THIS.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION?
YEAH.
CHRISTINA SO IN GENERAL I AM
NOT IN FAVOR OF THIS
APPLICATION AND IT'S JUST
INTERESTING TO COUNT HOW MANY
SO THERE'S EIGHT HOMES ON THIS
NORTH EDGE IF YOU CAN PAN OUT
CHARLIE TO THAT ONE VIEW SORT
OF .
SO I THINK I COUNTED EIGHT ON
THE CONCORD PINE SIDE UP
AGAINST ABOUT EIGHTEEN AND
THERE HER VILLAGE SIDE.
>> SO I FEEL LIKE IF WE ALLOW
THIS VARIANCE FOR THE FIRST
HOUSE THAT IT SETS A VERY
NEGATIVE PRECEDENT FOR NOT ONLY
THAT BANK OF HOMES IN THAT ROW
BUT I'M JUST MAKING AN
ASSUMPTION THAT THERE'S A
SIMILAR TYPE OF CONSERVATION
EASEMENT ON THE SOUTH SIDE.
>> I'M JUST MAKING THAT THAT
LEAP THERE.
BUT I JUST SEE THIS THE
DISTANCES IF THIS IS APPROVED
TODAY IT'S GOING TO START TO
ERODE ALL THE AGREEMENTS IN
PLACE AND IT'S NOT LIKE THIS
AGREEMENT IS DECADES THAT
THEY'VE HAD MANY YEARS TO TO
TEST IT OUT.
RIGHT.
IT'S VERY FRESH.
IT'S ONLY IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS IT'S A NEW
DEVELOPMENT.
>> IT'S A NEW COMPLETE SETTING
AS SOME OF THE LETTERS ALLUDED
TO, IT USED TO BE A VERY DENSE
FOREST.
SO I THINK THE CONSERVATION
EASEMENT SHOULD BE RESPECTED
REALLY ON BOTH SIDES.
SO I ASSUME IT ON THE EARHART
VILLAGE SIDE THEY'RE NOT GOING
TO TRY AND KEEP PUSHING.
NOT THAT THEY ARE BUT PUSH
TOWARDS THE SOUTH AND VICE
VERSA.
>> SO AND I DO FEEL TO THE
DESIGN SIDE OF IT THAT THERE'S
OPTIONS.
I FEEL LIKE THE 14 FOOT DEPTH
IS ARBITRARY.
YES.
TABLE IS NEEDED WITH YOU WANT
TO BE ABLE TO WALK AROUND THE
TABLE BUT I JUST I'M NOT SOLD
ON THE 14 FEET AND IT SOUNDS
LIKE EIGHT FEET IS ALLOWED.
>> THAT'S MY UNDERSTANDING.
AND THEN WHAT OTHER POINT TOO
IF MAYBE CHARLIE COULD GO TO A
PHOTO THAT SHOWS THE ELEVATION
WILL CHANGE FROM THE GROUND A
REAL YEAH.
SORT OF IS THERE ONE THAT SHOWS
THE S ELEVATION OF AREHART
VILLAGE SO FROM UNIT TO UNIT
YOU KNOW FROM THE TOLL BROTHERS
DEVELOPMENT LIKE THAT WHOLE
SUITE.
>> YEAH, RIGHT THERE BECAUSE
THERE'S QUITE AN ELEVATION
CHANGE.
SO THE FURTHER THIS ADDITION
GETS PUSHED TOWARDS THE NORTH
IT IS PROBABLY GOING TO FEEL
LARGER THAN A NORMAL PORCH
FOOTPRINT WOULD BE DUE TO THE
ELEVATION WILL CHANGE.
>> IT IS A LOT HIGHER ON THE
TALL SIDE THAN ON THE ERHART
VILLAGE SIDE.
>> SO I THINK THAT WOULD HAVE
AN IMPACT THAT I HAVEN'T REALLY
HEARD TALKED ABOUT BUT THAT
COULD ENFORCE THAT THAT
DECISION ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE OF THE HOUSE.
>> SO IT SOUNDS LIKE AN ADEC
BACK TO OPTIONS.
THERE'S A DECK CAN YOU CAN DO A
DECK THAT MEETS THAT MEETS THE
CODE WITHOUT A VARIANCE AND
THAT WOULD ENCOURAGE I
THINK
OTHER HOMES NEXT DOOR TO TO
TAKE THAT ON AS A AS A POSITIVE
PRECEDENT FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
I WILL SAY BRIEFLY THAT I IN I
AM IN GENERAL AGREEMENT WITH
THE COMMENTS THAT HAVE BEEN
MADE MY FELLOW ZIBA MEMBERS
THUS FAR THE STRUGGLE FOR ME IS
THAT THIS LOT IS AS HAS BEEN
SAID IS NOT EXCEPTIONAL IN ANY
WAY.
IT'S NEWLY CONSTRUCTED, IT'S
VERY RECTANGULAR WITH VERY
BASIC SET BACK PARAMETERS.
THERE'S NOT ANYTHING ABOUT IT
THAT MAKES IT UNIQUE OR SPECIAL
AS FAR AS THE UDC IS CONCERNED.
>> SO FOR THAT REASON IT'S KIND
OF EASY FOR ME TO SAY NO ON
THIS ONE.
>> I'M PREPARED TO MAKE A
MOTION.
ALL RIGHT.
IF THERE'S NO OTHER DISCUSSION
THEN I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A
MOTION.
>> THANK YOU, DAVE ZEBA TWENTY
FIVE DASH ONE ZERO ONE NINE
FIVE OR FOUR CONCORDE PYNES
DRIVE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
ESTABLISHED STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL THE ZONING BOARD
OF APPEALS HEREBY GRANTS A
VARIANCE FROM TABLE FIVE POINT
SEVENTEEN DASH ONE SINGLE
FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS TO
ALLOW FOR 175 SQUARE FOOT
SCREENED PORCH TO ENCROACH SIX
FEET INTO THE REAR YARD SETBACK
.
THANK YOU DAVE.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO HAVE
SUPPORT GROUP.
THANK YOU DHARMA DARMA
JULIE NO
DAVE DAVE ALREADY KNOW
CHRISTINA NO DREW NO.
>> I VOTE NO TUD NO DHARMA NO.
>> THE REQUEST IS DENIED.
ALL RIGHT MOVING ON TO PETITION
ZIBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
ONE THREE TWENTY FIVE TWENTY
FIVE AND AND ROAD I'M GOING TO
STEP OUT AND TURN THINGS OVER
TO TODD
RIGHT.
>> YES WHAT I'M CALLING ZEBA
TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO ONE
THREE TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE
AN HOUR SALEEN ROAD AND THE
CITY PRESENTATION WILL BE BY
CITY PLANNER MISS MALENE
KARAKORUM THANK YOU.
THIS IS A TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO
ZERO ONE THREE TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE IN OUR BURSLEY ROAD.
ROB WAGNER REPRESENTING A
PROPERTY OWNER IS REQUESTING A
VARIANCE OF 18 FEET FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT ONE SEVEN DASH THREE
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
THE VARIANCE WILL ALLOW
CONSTRUCTION OF A BUILDING WITH
TWO HUNDRED SIXTY TWO
RESIDENTIAL UNITS TO ENCROACH
INTO THE REQUIRED SIDE SET BACK
OF FIFTY ONE POINT TWO FEET.
THE PROPERTY IS CURRENTLY ZONED
OFFICE AND IS PROPOSED TO BE
RESOLVED AFTER E MULTIPLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
THE PROPERTY IS LOCATED AT THE
SOUTH OR IS LOCATED SOUTHEAST
BARBAROUSLY ROAD SOUTH WEST
OF OAK BROOK DRIVE AND NORTH
EISENHAUER PARKWAY ADJACENT TO
THE CRANEBROOK VILLAGE SHOPPING
CENTER.
>> AND THE FOUR POINT ONE SIX
ACRE SITE IS BECHARD.
THE APPLICANTS ARE PROPOSING TO
REZONE TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE
IN REVERSE LANE ROAD FROM
OFFICE DISTRICT TO OUR FORTY
MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING
DISTRICT AND CONSTRUCT A
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING WITH TWO HUNDRED SIXTY
TWO UNITS.
THE BUILDING WILL BE FIFTY
EIGHT POINT FIVE FEET TALL AND
THREE HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO
FEET WIDE WITH THREE HUNDRED
THOUSAND SEVENTY THREE HUNDRED
SEVENTY NINE THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED AND FIFTY NINE SQUARE
FEET OF FOUR AREA.
THE SUBJECT PROPERTY IS
TRIANGULAR OR WITH TWO FRONT
LINES ONE ALONG ANN ARBOR
SALEEN ROAD AND THE OTHER ALONG
OAK BROOK DRIVE AND THEN A SIDE
LINE SO PERFECT BE OF TABLE
FIVE ONE SEVEN DASH THREE.
THE BUILDING IS NOW DOWN TO AN
ADDITIONAL SIDE SET OF FIFTY
ONE POINT FORTY ONE POINT TWO
FEET FOR A TOTAL OF FIFTY ONE
POINT TWO FEET WITH THAT TEN
MINIMUM SIDE STEP BACK BECAUSE
OF THE PROPOSED HEIGHT AND WITH
AND I WILL JUST GO THROUGH IS
THE ZONING MAP SO YOU CAN SEE
THAT KIND OF TRIANGULAR SHAPED
LOT THAT'S OUTLINED IN BLUE AND
CURRENTLY ZONED OFFICE MAXWELL
ONE THERE IS THE AREA SO YOU
CAN SEE IT'S VACANT AND HAS
BEEN ALWAYS ZOOMED IN.
NOT A WHOLE LOT THERE ON THE
SITE CURRENTLY HERE IS THE
SURVEY THAT WAS SUBMITTED BY
THE APPLICANT AS PART OF THEIR
PLAN AND THEN THAT IS WHAT THE
PROPOSED BUILDING WOULD LOOK
LIKE.
SO IT IS KIND OF CRESCENT
SHAPED.
YOU CAN SEE IT THERE A LITTLE
BIT DIFFICULT ON THE SCREEN.
THERE IS SOME OUTSIDE.
THERE'S SOME SURFACE PARKING
AND THAT IT IS ADJACENT THE
PARKING LOT TO THE RIGHT SIDE
UPPER RIGHT HAND CORNER OF THE
SCREEN.
THIS IS A LITTLE BIT FLIPPED
FROM THE NORTH VIEW OF A MAP
ABOUT NEXT WEEK AND THEN HERE
IT'S A LITTLE BIT EASIER TO
UNDERSTAND FROM THE RENDERINGS.
SO THAT'S WHAT THE PROPOSED
BUILDING WOULD LOOK LIKE
FILLING AND THAT LOT NEXT ONE
WITH A COUPLE OF MORE
RENDERINGS.
THIS IS WHAT PLAN THAT THE
APPLICANTS SUBMITTED SOME
DIMENSIONS THAT THEY'LL TALK
ABOUT DURING THEIR PRESENTATION
AND THEN SOME PHOTOS THAT STAFF
TOOK OF A LOT LIKE I'M NOT A
WHOLE LOT GOING ON THERE
CURRENTLY YOU CAN SEE THE
CRANEBROOK VILLAGE SHOPPING
CENTER RIGHT THERE AND AT THAT
PARKING LOT AND THAT'S LOOKING
TOWARDS, YOU KNOW, EVERY SWING
ROAD AND THAT'S ALL I HAVE YOU
MANY QUESTIONS FOR MISS MARLENE
COCKRUM DARMA EUROSTEP REPORT
THE STORMWATER REPORTS FROM ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY THERE.
YEAH, YOU CAN GO BACK TO THE
PLAN, CHARLIE.
UM, YOU CAN SEE IT KIND
OF OUTLINED ON THIS PLAN ON THE
LEFT BOTTOM HAND CORNER OF THE
SCREEN AND THAT'S THE AREA AT
THAT CORNER OF OAK BROOK IN AND
OBVIOUSLY IN THE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS QUESTION
WHAT'S THE PROCESS FOR THE
REZONING SO THIS IS THEIR FIRST
STEP.
THE APPLICATION IS CURRENTLY
SCHEDULED FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION IN AUGUST.
THEN AFTER THAT WITH WITH
WHICHEVER RECOMMENDATION THEY
GET PLANNING PERMISSION,
THEY'LL GO TO COUNCIL.
THEY'LL HAVE TWO READINGS FOR
THE REZONING AND THEN AFTER THE
SECOND READING THERE'LL BE A
VOTE TO SEE IF THAT IS APPROVED
OR DENIED AND THE SITE PLAN IS
IT'S TIED TO THE REZONING.
SO OK, THANK YOU DAVE.
>> SO THIS IT JUST SEEMS ODD TO
COME FOR A VARIANCE BEFORE THE
ZONING BUT AND I UNDERSTAND
THEY ARE COMING FOR A JOB OR
WILL BE APPROACHING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY
COUNCIL FOR A ZONING CHANGE.
COULDN'T THEY ACCOMPLISH THE
SAME THING BY GETTING A PVD
ZONING CHANGE AND HAVE THE SITE
PLAN ITSELF AS THE ZONING
ZONING?
I MEAN THEORETICALLY YES.
PUTI IS OUR VERY COMPLICATED WE
DON'T GENERALLY RECOMMEND THEM
UNLESS THERE'S EXTENUATING
CIRCUMSTANCES.
IT'S A LONGER PROCESS BUT I
MEAN THEORETICALLY THEY COULD
ASK FOR A PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
>> I DO HAVE A QUESTION IS THE
EGRESS FROM THE CRANEBROOK
VILLAGE ONTO NORTHBOUND IN
SALEEN?
IS THAT GOING TO BE PRESERVED?
WILL PEOPLE STILL BE ABLE TO
DRIVE NORTH FROM WHOLEFOOD AND
THEN PICK UP IN OUR BUSTLINE AT
THE KIRKUP WELLBY STILL BE
THERE IN THAT SAME LOCATION?
THERE ARE GOING TO BE SOME
CHANGES TO IT TO MAKE IT A
LITTLE BIT SAFER FOR
PEDESTRIANS BECAUSE THERE WILL
BE MORE PEDESTRIANS IF THIS IS
BUILT.
SO THAT INCLUDES BRINGING SOME
BRINGING THE CROSSWALK THROUGH
BECAUSE THERE IS THAT KIND
OF AND I APOLOGIZE I DON'T KNOW
ALL OF THE TRAFFIC LANGUAGE BUT
THE TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
HAVE LOOKED AT THIS AND HAVE
SUGGESTIONS THAT WERE INCLUDED
IN REVISIONS FOR A SITE PLAN TO
MAKE THAT CAR SAFER FOR
PEDESTRIANS.
BUT THE LOCATION WILL REMAIN
THE SAME.
ANY MORE QUESTIONS?
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE READY FOR THE APPLICANT,
SIR.
YOU NEED TO, YOU KNOW, WRITE
YOUR NAME OF COURSE.
AND YOU KNOW YOU HAVE FIVE
MINUTES.
THANK YOU, MR. CHAIR.
MY NAME IS ROB WAGNER WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING AND THE
CIVIL ENGINEERING CONSULTANTS
WITH ME TONIGHT ARE TWO OF THE
OWNERS WITH CRANBROOK VILLAGE
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP ANDI, JACOB
AND ADAM JACOB ALSO WITH ME OR
WITH US TONIGHT IS BRAD MOORE,
LOCAL ARCHITECT.
THANK YOU MARIJANA FOR
DISPLAYING THIS GRAPHIC.
WE THOUGHT WOULD BE A GOOD
TALKING POINT AS WE GO THROUGH
OUR PRESENTATION.
SO WE DO HAVE A WE'RE PROPOSING
A TWO HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO
UNIT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT TO
HELP FILL THE NEED FOR HOUSING
HERE IN THE CITY
BANABA THE
ISSUE THAT WE HAVE AND WE
BELIEVE THIS WHAT WE'RE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO SHOW YOU IS
EXCEPTIONAL AND UNIQUE.
SO THAT'S THAT'S THE KIND
OF THE BASIS THIS YEAR THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE SETS
THE SITE SET BACK BASED ON A
RECTANGULAR BUILDING.
IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT THAT
DIAGRAM IN FRONT OF YOU, YOU
SEE THAT'S LIKE THE DEFINITION
OF A RECTANGLE KIND OF LIKE A
DIRECT ANGULAR LOT.
WELL, HERE WE HAVE AN IRREGULAR
SHAPED LOT AND WE HAVE A
BUILDING IN THE SHAPE OF A C
NOT REALLY A RECTANGLE BUT THE
SIDES SET BACK IS CALCULATION
AND A PORTION OF THAT SIDE
SETBACK REQUIREMENT IS BASED ON
THIS KIND OF WEIRD DEFINITION
OF THE LENGTH OF THE OF THE
BUILDING.
YEAH.
SO ANYWAYS IN THIS CASE THE
LENGTH YOU CAN KIND OF SEE IS
LONGER THAN THE BUILDING
BECAUSE THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE DEFINES THREE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY TWO FEET.
YOU KNOW WE BELIEVE THAT THAT
DEFINITION THAT LEADS TO THAT
IS A BAD DEFINITION AND WE
BELIEVE THAT YOU WILL TO THE
ACTUAL LENGTH ALONG SIDE OF THE
BUILDING ALONG THAT SIDE STEP
BACK HAS ONE NINETY TWO FEET
AND IF THE UNIT DEVELOPMENT
CODE INTERPRETED THAT AS THE
LENGTH OF THE BUILDING WE WOULD
NOT BE HERE TONIGHT.
SO WITH THE CALCULATIONS ASIDE
SET BACK AS YOU SEE THERE RIGHT
ON THE TOP THE REQUIRED STEP
BACK IS FIFTY ONE POINT TWO
FEET AND THAT'S EXCESSIVE.
WE BELIEVE THIS PRESENTS A
HARDSHIP TO THE SITE BECAUSE
OUR SITES AND IRREGULAR SHAPE A
LOT OF IT HAS TWO FRONT YARDS
AND ACTUALLY IT'S KIND OF A
TRIANGULAR SHAPED LOT IS THE
GEOMETRY WHICH WE CONSIDER TO
BE UNIQUE.
AS YOU CAN SEE THE BUILDING
AREA ON THAT SITE IS LIMITED.
YOU KNOW, YOU DID ASK ABOUT THE
STORMWATER BASIN AND WHAT I
WOULD LIKE TO SAY IS THAT ALSO
RESTRICTS THE THE USE ON THE
SITE THAT STORMWATER BASED AND
THAT YOU SEE THERE AT OAK BROOK
IN ANN ARBOR SILENE, THERE'S AN
EASEMENT AND THAT PROVIDES
STORMWATER BEST PRACTICES NOT
ONLY TO OUR SITE BUT ACTUALLY
THE CITY STREET OAK BROOK DRIVE
AND THE CONDOMINIUMS ACROSS THE
STREET.
SO ALL THAT STORMWATER NEED IS
RESTRICTING US US AS WELL.
>> SO WHAT ARE WE PROPOSING?
WE'RE PROPOSING A VARIANCE
OF 18 FEET THAT THIRTY THREE
POINT TWO FEET SET BACK THAT WE
HAVE PLUS 18 FOOT VARIANCE.
WOULD YOU OR WOULD BE THAT
FIFTY ONE POINT TWO FEET
REQUIRED SET BACK WHAT WE'RE
DOING WITH THAT WHAT WE'RE
DOING ON THE NEIGHBORING SITE
THAT ARE THAT THE OWNER OF THIS
PROPOSED ALSO OWNS THE ADJACENT
SITE IS PROPOSING TO DEDICATE
AN 18 FOOT WIDE NO BUILD
EASEMENT SO THAT WHOLE
WHOLEFOODS EVER REDEVELOPS
WHICH WE DON'T THINK IT WILL
YOU KNOW, THEY WOULDN'T BE ABLE
TO BUILD WITHIN 18 FEET OF THAT
PROPERTY LINE.
SO WITH THAT THE STEP BACK FROM
BUILDING A BUILDING WOULD BE
YOU'RE FIFTY ONE POINT TWO FEET
.
IN ADDITION TO THAT, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S A WATER MAIN THERE AND
THERE'S A 40 FOOT WATER
MANAGEMENT.
SO REALLY THE BUILDING WOULDN'T
BE ABLE TO BE IN THAT WATER
MANAGEMENT.
SO IN REALITY THE THE BUILDING
THE BUILDING SET BACK WOULD BE
OVER SEVENTY THREE FEET WHICH
IS YOU GREATER THAN FIFTY ONE
FEET.
THE WHOLE FOODS BUILDING THAT'S
ON THERE IS MORE THAN ONE
HUNDRED FEET FROM THE MAT MORE
THAN ABOUT APPROXIMATELY A
HUNDRED FEET FROM THE PROPERTY
LINE.
YOU KNOW WE TALKED ABOUT
REZONING WE ARE IN THE REZONING
PROCESS BUT IF WE WEREN'T
REZONING AND THIS WAS DEVELOPED
AS AN OFFICE LIKE IT IS NOW
THERE WOULD BE ZERO SETBACK
REQUIRED IF WE REZONE THIS TO A
MIXED USE AND TOOK ADVANTAGE
OF THAT, THERE WOULD ALSO BE A
ZERO LOT LINE.
YOU KNOW, WE COULD BE RIGHT
THERE IN THE LOT LINE.
SO YOU KNOW, WE'RE HERE TONIGHT
TO ASK TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE
EXCESSIVE SETBACK THAT THE
CODE IS KIND OF DICTATING AND
TO GRANT THE GRANT A VARIANCE
TO THIS UNIQUE TRIANGULAR
SHAPED LOT.
YOU KNOW, THIS WILL HAVE
MINIMAL TO NO IMPACT OF THE
ADJACENT PROPERTIES AND I MEAN
IF THE VARIANCE IS DESIRED, YOU
KNOW, DENIED THEN YOU KNOW, WE
BELIEVE THAT THE CITY THE GOALS
OF BRINGING MORE HOUSING TO THE
CITY WOULD WOULD NOT BE
ACHIEVED AGAIN, WE'RE HERE TO
ANSWER QUESTIONS EITHER BEFORE
OR AFTER YOUR PUBLIC HEARING OR
ANY TIME MYSELF AND IF THEY'RE
OUT OF MY MY MY AREA WE HAVE
THE LOCAL ARCHITECT BRAD AND
AND EVEN THE OWNER IF ANY ANY
QUESTIONS TO THAT LEVEL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. WAGNER.
ANY QUESTIONS?
YES, DERMO, I JUST WANT TO BE
SURE THAT I'M LOOKING AT THIS
DIAGRAM CORRECTLY BECAUSE I
THINK I WASN'T IT FIRST.
SO THE SET BACK THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IS THE SET BACK
THAT'S BETWEEN A PROPOSED
BUILDING AND THE BACK OF THE
WHOLE FOODS.
THAT PARKING LOT THAT'S BEEN
THERE IS THAT THE AREA ON THE
RIGHT?
>> IT'S REALLY NOT, YOU KNOW,
DENOTED TO TO ALIGN HERE WE
NEED FIFTY ONE POINT TWO FEET
FROM THE PROPERTY LINE.
>> WE'RE GIVING YOU THIRTY
THREE POINT RIGHT.
>> BUT WHICH PROPERTY?
I THINK I'M TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHICH SIDE AND
DIMENSIONS TO THE PROPERTY.
OK, SO THE LEFT OF THE PURPLE I
GUESS IS THE PROPERTY LINE OK
IT'S ALSO YELLOW SO THAT'S THE
PROPERTY LINE.
SO PURPLE THAT 18 FEET
OF PURPLE IS ON THE ADJACENT
WHOLEFOOD PROPERTY THAT WOULD
BE A NO BUILD EASEMENT THAT'S
THAT'S I THOUGHT OK I WANT TO
FOR IT.
YES THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO SAY
IT.
YES IT'S THE COMMON PROPERTY
LINE BETWEEN THE OWNERS AND
GIVEN THAT THAT'S WHERE ALL THE
PICNIC TABLES ARE IN THE STAFF
TAKES THE BRICKS.
MR. MOORE, DO YOU WANT TO
IDENTIFY YOURSELF FOR THE
RECORD I'LL SAY YEAH.
>> YEAH, MY NAME IS BRAD MOORE
BUT JERRY BROWN ASSOCIATES ARE
THE LOCAL CONSULTING GOOD LIKE
YOU DID SO THE PURPLE ON THIS
PHOTO THAT'S ON THE SCREEN IS
AT THIS POINT CRANEBROOK RELAID
PROPERTY WHERE THE WHOLE FOODS
BUT REALLY THAT WHOLE THING
HAVE YOU DO YOU HAVE AN
AGREEMENT ALREADY IN WRITING
THAT THIS IS A NO BUILD
EASEMENT THAT 18 FEET THAT YEAH
THAT WILL THAT WILL BE REQUIRED
AS PART OF THE SITE PLAN.
SO BEFORE WE GO TO THE YOU
KNOW, TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AUGUST 5TH THAT'LL
NEED TO BE IN PLACE SO YOU'LL
HAVE A LEGAL AGREEMENT WITH AN
ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER AND I
GUESS THERE'S SOME COMMONALITY
IN OWNERSHIP.
YES, WELL WE KNOW THAT YOU
KNOW, THE REALITY IS THE OWNERS
CAN SELL PIECES OF PROPERTY IN
SOME PLACE.
I WILL KNOW ON BACK IN THE
1980S WHEN I WAS ON CITY
COUNCIL AND THE CRANBROOK
VILLAGE WENT IN I REMEMBER AND
I WAS IN MEETINGS WHERE THE
OWNERS OF THAT PROPOSED AT THAT
POINT PROPOSED SHOPPING CENTER
THANK YOU SAID THAT THEY WOULD
WHEN IT WAS GOING TO BE A
MERVYN'S IT WAS COMING IN IF
NEEDED FOR TRAFFIC
CONSIDERATIONS THAT THEY WOULD
FUND A TRAFFIC LIGHT AND HOPE
OR DRIVE OAKBROOK AND OUR
SELINE ROAD AND MY FEAR IS HAD
ON THE OTHER SIDE OF AN
OBVIOUSLY ROAD YOU'VE GOT
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT NORTH
DRIVE AND I'VE ACTUALLY TRIED
TO MAKE LEFT TURNS OUT OF THIS
OUT OF DRIVE ON AND OBVIOUSLY
IN CERTAIN TIMES OF THE DAY AND
IT'S A NIGHTMARE AND I'M JUST
HIRED ME TO MAKE A LEFT TURN.
CORRECT.
I'VE DONE IT TO BUT I'M JUST
WONDERING IS THE TIME NOW FOR
THAT THE OWNERSHIP OF THAT
SHOPPING CENTER TO STEP FORWARD
AND COLLABORATE WITH THE CITY
AND FUND MAYBE AS A SITE PLAN
TO PUT A LIGHT THERE TO
FACILITATE AND WE'RE ADDING A
SIGNIFIER TO A NUMBER OF NEW
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WHICH WILL BE
MORE TRAFFIC COMING IN AND OUT
OF ALTHOUGH THE ACCESS IS DOWN
FROM THAT INTERSECTION
SOMETIMES HAVING A LIGHT NEARBY
WILL FACILITATE EXITING FROM
FROM A PARKING LOT LIKE THAT IN
BETWEEN LIGHTS.
YEAH, I'M JUST WONDERING IF
THERE'S ANY POSSIBILITY OF THE
OWNERSHIP STEPPING FORWARD AT
THIS POINT AND FOLLOWING
THROUGH ON THAT AGREEMENT.
I SPECIFICALLY REMEMBER THEM
MAKING NOT IN WRITING.
I DON'T BELIEVE BUT THEY SAID
IF THERE'S EVER NEED TO BE FOR
FUTURE RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
LIKE THERE THEY WOULD COOPERATE
WITH HELPING TO FUND THAT LIKE
YEAH I WILL SPEAK TO THAT.
WHAT'S NOT SHOWN ON THIS?
YOU KNOW, WE DO HAVE THAT
EXISTING ENTRANCE THAT MARIJANA
WAS CLEAR THAT WE'RE NARROWING
NARROWING IN ORDER TO PROVIDE
MORE SAFETY WE'RE CARRYING
THROUGH THE SIDEWALK AND MAKING
THAT A SAFER DRIVE APPROACH FOR
THE CITY.
BUT VIRTUALLY ALL OF THE
TRAFFIC FROM THIS WILL ACTUALLY
GO OUT TO OAK BROOK.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO TWO
CROSSWALKS THAT WE'RE PROPOSING
THAT ARE CLEARLY
SHOWN BUT ONE
GOING ACROSS OAK BROOK AND ONE
ACTUALLY GOING ACROSS INTO
REVERSE LANE ROAD.
BUT HAVING SAID THAT, OUR ARE
THE DEVELOPER AND HE'S IN THE
ROOM.
HE WOULD HE WOULD BE HAPPY TO
TALK TO THE CITY ABOUT
PARTNERING IN STREET LIGHT NOT
IT WOULD BE OF BENEFIT TO THE
RESIDENTS WILL BE YOUR FUTURE
RESIDENTS.
I'LL JUST SAY THAT OUR TRAFFIC
AND TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
HAVE HAD EXTENSIVE DISCUSSIONS
AND HAVE LOOKED AT VARIOUS
VERSIONS OF THIS SITE PLAN.
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN CONCERNS
ABOUT TRAFFIC LIGHTS AND WHAT
KIND OF STUDIES WOULD HAVE TO
HAPPEN TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
IS THE BEST SOLUTION THERE.
BUT THE DEVELOPERS HAVE AGREED
AND THERE ARE NOTES IN THE SITE
PLAN THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE WORKING WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE CROSSWALKS
ARE IN THE RIGHT PLACES AND
THAT EVERYTHING IS UP TO
CODE AND UP TO OUR STANDARDS
FOR THE SAFETY OF THE
PEDESTRIANS WHO WOULD BE USING
IT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THAT'S VERY REASSURING.
SHE SAID YEAH.
YEAH THANKS.
>> ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS?
OH, I HAVE ONE.
>> THE RATIONAL DEVELOPER
OF COURSE WANTS TO MAXIMIZE THE
SPACE I MEAN THE RATIONAL WAY
TO PROCEED AND MORE PROFIT MORE
USEFUL FOR THE FOR THE LOT IF
THIS EASEMENT WERE NOT GRANTED
IS THAT A PROJECT KILLER
BECAUSE YOU OBVIOUSLY SIMPLY
SHRINK THE BUILDING INSTEAD
OF HAVING 262 UNITS YOU COULD
HAVE 200 UNITS FOR EXAMPLE.
DOES THIS SORT OF LIVE OR DIE
VARIANCE BECAUSE I GUESS THAT'S
WHAT I'M ASKING.
>> YEAH, WELL, YOU KNOW, LOSING
TEN PERCENT OF THE UNITS IS IS
A MAKE OR BREAK DEAL WITH THIS
TYPE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
>> I UNDERSTAND.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU SIR.
YEAH, ANYBODY HERE IN CHAMBERS
THAT WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK FOR OR
AGAINST THIS PLEASE IDENTIFY
YOURSELF MA'AM AND SIGN IN AND
PUT YOUR NAME
.
HELLO MY NAME IS MARY
WARSHAWSKY AND MY HUSBAND AND I
LIVE FIVE SIXTY FOUR GARLAND
CIRCLE WHICH IS THE OAK BROOK
CONDOMINIUMS, VILLAS AND BY
MEADOW'S MEADOWS MEWS SO MY
PRESENTATION MIGHT BE MORE
APPROPRIATE FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
HOWEVER I WILL REITERATE SOME
CONCERNS I HAVE ABOUT THIS
PROJECT AS THE BUILDING LOOKS
REALLY WONDERFUL.
IT DOES NOT FIT WITHIN THE
ARCHITECTURE OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ONE OF THE SO
WHERE THE RETENTION POND IS I'M
SURE.
>> LET ME INTERRUPT YOU.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES.
YES.
WELL I AM GOING TO GIVE YOU I'M
NOT COUNTING MY QUESTION TO
THOSE THREE.
I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU A COPY.
I'M NOT SURE IF THIS IS GOING
TO BE APPROPRIATE FOR THE
RECORD FOR YOU, BUT THIS IS I'M
GOING TO SUBMIT THIS FOR THE
RECORD.
THANK COPY OF THAT.
SO TO HIGHLIGHT THIS CONCERNS
FOR PEDESTRIAN BECAUSE OAK BOOK
DRIVE THERE ARE A LOT
OF PEDESTRIANS ALREADY WITH A
SENIOR DEVELOPMENTS DOWN IN OAK
BROOK DRIVE.
THEY WALK WITH THEIR WALKERS
AND THERE WILL NEED TO BE
CROSSWALKS WITH THE FLASHING
LIGHTS TO ALERT DRIVERS THAT
THERE'S SOMEBODY CROSSING THE
STREET.
IT IS A WALKER'S PARADISE.
IT'S A VERY FRIENDLY ATMOSPHERE
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THIS PROJECT
IS NOT CONDUCIVE FOR THIS AREA.
IT IS CONDUCIVE FOR ANOTHER
PART OF THE CITY FOR CREATING
MORE HOUSING FOR THE SHORTAGE
OF THE INFLUX OF PEOPLE
TRAFFIC
CONCERNS AGAIN I FEEL A LITTLE
BETTER ABOUT THAT I THINK DARMA
SAID IT IS ILLEGAL TO TURN
LEFT.
I HAVE SEEN ALMOST NEAR MISSES.
THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW DEATHS IN
THE PAST BECAUSE OF THIS LEFT
HAND TURN AND PEOPLE DO IT ALL
THE TIME.
>> THEY IGNORE THAT DRAINAGE
ISSUES HUGE PROBLEM.
>> THERE WAS JACOB AND JACOB
FROM SILVER VIEW PARTNER SAYS
THE RETENTION POND THAT IS
LOCATED AT THIS PARCEL IS
CONNECTED TO THE OAK CONDOS AND
VILLAS HE WAS GOING TO DO A
MORE HE WAS GOING TO GET HIS
ENGINEERS TO INVESTIGATE THIS
MORE AND TO SEE IF THE WATER
HAS NOWHERE TO GO AND OR IF THE
DRAIN TILES ARE PLUGGED.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THAT
HAPPENING.
THE NOISE FACTOR WITH THIS
BUILDING BEING SO TALL AND FROM
WHAT I'VE SEEN I THINK UNLESS
IT'S BEEN REVISED THEY WERE
PROPOSING A ROOFTOP AREA WHERE
THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE GRILLS
AND STUFF SO THAT ALL THAT
NOISE IS GOING TO AFFECT OAK
BROOK CONDOS AND VILLAS.
NEED SOME MORE STUDY ON THE
ELECTRIC POWER GRID AND YOU
KNOW, JUST THE FACT THAT THE
CITY IS IMPLEMENTING A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
OF AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY AND EQUITABILITY
IF THIS PROJECT GETS BUILT, THE
CITY WOULD NOT BE ADHERING TO
ITS OWN INVISION ENVISIONED FOR
THIS PROJECT.
I THINK THAT THE PRUDENT THING
TO DO BEFORE ADDING MORE
HOUSING UNITS TO ANN ARBOR IS
TO DO AN IMPACT ASSESSMENT ON
THE ALREADY APPROVED PROJECTS
BEFORE COMMITTING TO FURTHER
DEVELOPMENT.
IF THE BOARD DOES AND I'M NOT
SURE THIS IS THE APPROPRIATE
VENUE FOR THIS BUT IF IT DOES
SEE THE NEED FOR THIS PROJECT
TO MOVE FORWARD, I PROPOSE THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS ARE
IMPOSED THE SIZE AND THE HEIGHT
BE REDUCED SO THE BUILDING
WOULD BLEND IN WITH THE ALREADY
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD SET BACK
SO IT DOES NOT BUT TOO CLOSE TO
THE SIDEWALKS AND STREET
REQUIRED LANDSCAPING FOR THE
BUFFERING BIG EVERGREEN TREES
ALONG OAK BROOK DRIVE TO MAKE
SURE AND TO MAKE SURE ALL THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IS IN PLACE.
AS I MENTIONED BEFORE.
SO THANK YOU FOR LISTENING TO
ME AND I WILL HAND OVER THIS
PROPERTY TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU MA'AM.
GOOD THIS MORNING PEOPLE AND
ANYONE ELSE IN THE ROOM THEY
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PROJECT.
ALL RIGHT.
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS?
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANYONE ONLINE
RIGHT NOW AND THERE WERE SOME
LETTERS EMAILS I MAY NOT HAVE
LISTED ALL OF THEM ONE FROM
ANDREW BERRY, ONE FROM MARGARET
GOODLEY AND ANOTHER ONE FROM
NAN LEFT HIM.
I THINK I THINK THAT'S THOSE IN
FAVOR OR OPPOSE IN FAVOR WAS
MR. BERRY AND AGAINST WERE MISS
GOODLEY AND MISS LEFTON.
I DON'T HAVE NOTES ON THE OTHER
TWO BUT MISS GOODLEY WAS
CONCERNED ABOUT GETTING RID
OF A GREENSPACE THAT WAS SEEN
TO BE HER MAJOR OBJECTION.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT THEN THE PUBLIC INPUT
PART IS CLOSE AND WE'RE IN
DISCUSSION AMONG THE MEMBERS
OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SAID SANCERRE I'M NOT GOING TO
GO FIRST.
>> SOMEBODY ELSE SAID THAT OH
YEAH DENHA I THINK THIS DOES
MEET MANY OF OUR CRITERIA.
THERE IS A PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
BECAUSE OF THE SHAPE OF THE LOT
I THINK THERE IS SIGNIFICANT
PUBLIC BENEFIT OF HAVING THIS
HOUSING.
I KNOW THERE ARE GOING TO BE
TRAFFIC CONSIDERATIONS AND
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
CONSIDERATIONS BUT I'M
CONFIDENT THAT FURTHER WORK
WITH THE CITY ENGINEERING,
TRANSPORTATION AND PLANNING
DEPARTMENTS CAN ADDRESS THOSE
ISSUES.
I SEE THIS WHERE THE VARIANCE
THAT THEY'RE LOOKING FOR IS
ALONG THE LOT LINE WHERE
THEY'RE PROPOSING AN AGREEMENT
FOR A NO BUILD EASEMENT WHICH
ESSENTIALLY CREATES THE
REQUIRED SET BACK KIND OF IN
NATURE.
SO I SEE THAT IS AS ADDRESSING
THIS AND MAKING MAKING IT GIVEN
THAT THAT THIS IS REALLY THE
MINIMUM NECESSARY TO ALLOW THIS
TO HAPPEN.
AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, FRANKLY
I THINK MORE HOUSING DOWN IN
THIS PART THE CITY IS
APPROPRIATE.
I DO TAKE TO HEART THE COMMENTS
THAT OUR SPEAKER MADE HERE AT
THE PODIUM AND WOULD JUST URGE
THE CITY TO BE ATTENDANT TO
THOSE CONCERNS AS THE PLANNING
ON THIS GOES FORWARD, THERE
WILL BE A ZONING CHANGE.
SO WE'LL HAVE TO GO THROUGH
SITE PLANNING REVIEW PLANNING
COMMISSION, THOSE SORTS
OF STATEMENTS SHOULD BE
DELIVERED IN THOSE ARENAS AND
BUT IN TERMS OF VOTING ON THIS
VARIANCE, I'M GOING TO VOTE IN
FAVOR OF IT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS JUST ADDED
TO A LITTLE BIT THAT THE
COMMENTS THAT WE JUST HEARD
FROM THE NEIGHBOR THAT THEY'RE
SEEING SEEMINGLY VERY VALID
CONCERNS THAT THIS ISN'T A
RIGHT PLATFORM FOR THEM TO HAVE
US, YOU KNOW, DO ANYTHING WITH
THOSE CONCERNS.
RIGHT.
OUR OUR JOB IS JUST TO REALLY
FOCUS ON THE IMPACT OF THE
OF THAT SETBACK.
BUT BUT I ENCOURAGE YOU YEAH.
>> FOR SURE TO PASS THROUGH
THOSE COMMENTS TO ALL THE
APPROPRIATE STEPS ALONG THE WAY
BECAUSE I THINK A LOT OF VALID
CONCERNS THERE OVERALL THAT YOU
MAKE.
BUT IN GENERAL I'M IN SUPPORT
OF THIS APPLICATION AND I YEAH,
I THINK IT MAKES SENSE FOR
THE
PURVIEW THAT WE HAVE FOR THIS
APPLICATION.
THANK YOU.
YOU MAKE MY JULIE YEAH.
AND JUST TO ADD ON TO THAT I AM
ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
I DID TAKE SOME NOTES RELATIVE
TO THE ISSUES YOU HAD SO AGAIN
GOOD TO MENTION THAT AT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION TOO.
BUT I AGREE THAT THERE ARE SOME
ISSUES THAT THAT WE NEED TO
DISCUSS.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD JUST SAY I AGREE WITH
DEVOTEES COMMENTS.
I THINK HE SAID WHAT I WOULD
HAVE SAID.
>> I THINK WE'RE READY FOR
EMOTION.
OK, I'M READY TO MAKE MY FIRST
ZEBA TWENTY FIVE DASH ZERO ZERO
ONE THREE TWENTY FIVE TWENTY
FIVE AN HOUR TO ROAD IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHED
STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS HEREBY
GRANTS A VARIANCE FROM TABLE
FIVE POINT SEVENTEEN DASH THREE
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS TO ALLOW FOR A
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING TO
ENCROACH 18 FEET INTO THE SIDE
YARD SETBACK AND SUPPORT DREW
WRITE
AND NO VOTE IN A VOTE YES
DARMA YES JULIE YES DAVE
DIVERTER YES.
CHRISTINA YES DREW YES.
ALL RIGHT.
THE BRANCH REQUEST IS PASSED.
THANK YOU AND CANDICE YOU COME
BACK IS CANDICE LEFT THE
BUILDING.
SHE JUST KEEPS ON.
I CAN KEEP GOING.
I NEED TO GET OUT.
>> OH, OK.
I NEED TO BE RESCUED CANDICE
AND I'M NOT SURE WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT.
SOMETHING ABOUT VOTING TO GET
OUT OF HERE
YOU GOT TO YEAH.
GOOD THANKS.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON.
WE HAVE NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
.
NEW BUSINESS REPORTS FROM KAMAL
KURSON KAMAL.
YEAH.
OH, I PROMISE I WASN'T DRINKING
IN THE HALLWAY.
REPORTS FROM COUNCIL DHARMA
IT'S CALLED KARMA DHARMA AT
THIS CITY COUNCIL MEETING WE
HAD THE SECOND READING OF TO
ORDINANCE CHANGES THAT RELATE
TO PUBLIC HEARINGS AND CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION.
ONE WAS AN UPDATE TO HOW THE
CITY HANDLES PUBLIC NOTICES AND
HEARINGS FOR DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS AND THE GOAL THERE WAS
TO CREATE A CLEARER, MORE
CONSISTENT PROCESS THAT REMAINS
TRANSPARENT AND ENSURES
MEANINGFUL OPPORTUNITIES FOR
PUBLIC INPUT.
THIS CHANGES WILL ACTUALLY IT
STANDARDIZES HOW AND WHEN
NOTICES ARE POSTED, MAILED AND
PUBLISHED REMOVES EXTRA PUBLIC
HEARING REQUIREMENTS FOR
CERTAIN SITE PLANS AND THIS WAS
TO BE ALIGNED MORE WITH STATE
LAW.
SECONDLY, CHANGE TO CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION OR COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION ORDINANCES
CHANGING HOW AND WHEN RESIDENTS
ARE INFORMED ABOUT NEW
DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
IT ALSO WOULD ADD DIGITAL
NOTIFICATIONS THROUGH CITY
COMMUNICATION CHANNELS IN
ADDITION TO THE REQUIRED MAILED
NOTICES SO THERE CAN BE BROADER
PARTICIPATION.
CREATE A CITYWIDE CALENDAR
OF PARTICIPATION MEETINGS ON
THE CITIES WEBSITE AND REQUIRE
THESE MEETINGS TO HAPPEN AT THE
SAME TIME AT A SITE PLAN IS
SUBMITTED SO THAT WE GET
FEEDBACK WHEN IT CAN BE MOST
USEFUL IN THE REVIEW PROCESS
RIGHT NOW WELL BEFORE THE
PARTICIPATION MEETINGS COULD
HAPPENED EVEN MONTHS AND YEARS
BEFORE THE PROJECT WENT TO
STAFF.
SO THERE ARE TWO CHANGES.
RIGHT.
THANKS, DARMA.
MOVING ON TO COMMUNICATIONS I
BELIEVE WE HAVE NOTED ALL
OF THE COMMUNICATIONS THAT WE
RECEIVED FOR THIS MEETING
PUBLIC COMMENT IF THERE IS
ANYONE FROM THE PUBLIC WHO
WISHES TO SPEAK TO THE ZIBA ON
ANY MATTER, NOW'S YOUR CHANCE
IF YOU'RE HERE IN PERSON YOU
CAN COME FORWARD.
IF YOU ARE ACCESSING THE
MEETING REMOTELY, PLEASE PRESS
STAR NINE OR USE THE RAISED
HAND BUTTON OBJECT WITH THAT
DRIVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN TRULY
SUPPORT SUPPORT FROM DAVE IN
FAVOR SAY HI OPPOSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED.
THANKS EVERYBODY.